[docs] add mcp guide (#40070)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas/ai/mcp.mdx

After installation, run `/mcp` in your Claude Code session to authenticate.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Cursor setup">

Click the following link to install the MCP server for Cursor:

<a href="cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=expo-mcp&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL21jcC5leHBvLmRldi9tY3AifQ%3D%3D">
  <img
    src="https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-light.svg"
    alt="Install MCP Server"
    className="hidden max-w-48 dark:block"
  />
  <img
    src="https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg"
    alt="Install MCP Server"
    className="block max-w-48 dark:hidden"
  />
</a>

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="VS Code setup">

1. Open Command Palette (<kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>)
2. Run **MCP: Add Server**
3. Select **HTTP**
4. Enter the server details:
   - **URL**: `https://mcp.expo.dev/mcp`
   - **Name**: expo-mcp

</Collapsible>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Authenticate with Expo

After installing the MCP server, you'll need to authenticate using one of two methods:

#### Access token (recommended)

> Generate an access token from your Expo account settings and use it during the OAuth flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate a **Personal access token** from your Expo account and use it during the OAuth flow.

To generate an access token, open your EAS dashboard, navigate to **Credentials** > **Access tokens** > **Personal access tokens**, and then click **Create token**.
```

Let's also document the path to generate an access token inside the dashboard.

The Expo MCP server provides two types of capabilities depending on your setup:

### Server capabilities

Server capabilities are available with just the remote MCP server connection, without needing to set up a local development server. The **generate_agents_md** tool is an example of a server capability.

### Local capabilities

Local capabilities require a local Expo development server to be running and provide advanced features that interact with your local development environment:

- **Automation tools**: Take screenshots, tap views, find elements by testID
- **Development tools**: Open React Native DevTools
- **Project analysis**: Generate `expo-router` sitemap

These capabilities enable more sophisticated workflows like automated testing, visual verification, and deeper project introspection. To use local capabilities, you will need to follow the [Set up local capabilities](#set-up-local-capabilities-recommended) section above.

## Available MCP capabilities

> **info** The MCP capabilities are subject to change from the `expo-mcp` package updates or MCP server changes. The follow list is just a reference and may not be up to date.

### Tools

> | Tool                                   | Description                                                          | Example Prompt                                      | Availability                           |

Reviewer: Should `search_documentation` and `learn` be a part of this table? They are enabled by default:

<img width="958" height="338" alt="CleanShot 2025-10-02 at 16 52 53@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bba1e211-24e3-4f3e-aff1-cb5b9ed14edf" />

The reason I am asking this is to have an example prompt below in the able. It will be nice to have.

Author: added

---
title: Using Model Context Protocol (MCP) with Expo
sidebar_title: MCP
description: A guide on integrating Model Context Protocol with Expo projects to enhance AI model capabilities.
isPreview: true
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> > **important** Expo MCP Server is currently in **preview** and is only available for EAS paid plan subscribers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **important** Expo MCP Server is currently in **preview** and is only available for [EAS paid plan subscribers](https://expo.dev/pricing).
```

Let's also add the link to the pricing page here.

</Step>

## Server capabilities vs local capabilities

The Expo MCP server provides two types of capabilities depending on your setup:

### Server capabilities

Server capabilities are available with just the remote MCP server connection, without needing to set up a local development server. The **generate_agents_md** tool is an example of a server capability.

### Local capabilities

Local capabilities require a local Expo development server to be running and provide advanced features that interact with your local development environment:

- **Automation tools**: Take screenshots, tap views, find elements by testID
- **Development tools**: Open React Native DevTools
- **Project analysis**: Generate `expo-router` sitemap

These capabilities enable more sophisticated workflows like automated testing, visual verification, and deeper project introspection. To use local capabilities, you will need to follow the [Set up local capabilities](#set-up-local-capabilities-recommended) section above.

## Available MCP capabilities

> > **info** The MCP capabilities are subject to change from the `expo-mcp` package updates or MCP server changes. The follow list is just a reference and may not be up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **info** The MCP capabilities are subject to change from the `expo-mcp` package updates or MCP server changes. The following list is a reference and may not be up to date.
```

Typo.
